well the Israeli government has banned
Al jazer from reporting from there so
hamut joins me now from the Jordanian
Capital am man H talk us through what
we've now been hearing from the
Israelis well we've been hearing from
Israel's defense ministry as well as the
Army chief of staff let's begin with
that meeting at the Kia in Tel Aviv
that's Israel's version of the Pentagon
it's the defense Ministry where we did
have a situational assessment held by
yoav Galant the country's defense
minister along with several generals
from Israel's Northern front command and
the Army Chief of Staff hery halevi now
in a readout from the defense Ministry
Gallant had emphasized that Israel is
looking to combat the Iranian drone
threat in all possible ways and that
Israel should be prepared for all
possible scenarios Additionally the Army
Chief of Staff has said that Israel is
preparing itself on the ground to the
maximum highest alert and that they are
ready for a wide range of possibilities
ready to make what he's calling the
right decision now all of this comes as
hery halevi the military chief of staff
was touring Israel's North earlier today
essentially downplaying the video that
Hezbollah had showed nearly 10 minutes
long showing sensitive military areas
within Northern Israel and even showing
Iron Dome missile defense batteries now
halevi there was saying that Hezbollah
is quote not aware of the military cap
capabilities that Israel still has and
that any capabilities hisbah has
Israel's are greater but the reality of
the situation is we actually don't know
what kind of military and weapons
capabilities Hezbollah has because we
haven't really seen it so the Army is
downplaying what is going to happen next
really with Hezbollah but it is worth
mentioning that the generals from
Israel's Northern command who did
approve these new battle and attack
plans for what they're calling an
offensive in Le on were at this meeting
with yoav Galant in which they're saying
they are prepared for
war well all the latest from the Israeli
side there from hamda salut a reminder
as I was saying earlier the Israeli
government has banned Al jazer from
operating Israel that's why HDA was
joining us there from neighboring Jordan
well let's bring in Maan bashara Al jaer
senior political analyst he's joining us
today from Paris Maan what do you make
of the threats we're hearing from both
Hezbollah and Israel how close are we to
to All Out War here
you know we don't know I mean that's the
short answer right but certainly we are
getting closer and closer to it uh
because of the escalation that's going
on and every time there is an escalation
we all jump in and say well here we are
we're getting closer to perhaps an
allout War because even if uh they're
not intended to do it uh intentionally
basically it would they could still
happen by mistake right right by some
major killing of major proportions of
people in Lebanon or in Israel and that
will simply lead to an escalation
because neither side will be able to
Simply uh you know withhold uh uh
whatever the the limits are uh but again
we've been there and we've been said
that uh we've been saying that the past
uh you know several months I remember
with with each time you know that
American Israeli Envoy came to Lebanon
back in what was it
November uh January and March and this
is the fourth time around those time
there was always a bit of an escalation
and then we talked about the threat of
the of a widening
War now the thing the thing that you
hear from hisbah is basically an attempt
not to go to to to to an old white War
that's why you hear such uh screaming
such warning such threat because it's
meant to be as a deterrence if you go
out on allout war well expect an allout
War well Mar one Israel is also right
now grappling with growing tensions not
only with with Hezbollah but with the US
I see the White House has reportedly
canceled a fairly high level meeting
after Netanyahu released that video
saying that Washington is withholding
military aid where is that relationship
now okay so this is uh of course another
front I think we're dealing here with a
number of fronts you and I have spoken
earlier about the legal aspect of things
the geopolitical aspect of things and
with Lebanon Israel we're talking about
strategy and War and here in the case of
Israel us we're talking about the
politics yeah it's not about the
strategy it's not about geopolitics it's
about the politics of Netanyahu and his
government the politics of Netanyahu and
his uh systematic pathological lying
backstabbing cheating prime minister
right so just as he did with Obama now
he's doing with Biden despite the
unprecedented support for Israel by the
Biden
Administration is clearly preparing for
the day after Biden or preparing for the
day after Biden to happen which is Trump
because the video that he did could
easily be used as propaganda by the
Republican Party by the Trump campaign
against bu them by saying we are you
know the solid Ally of the United States
and we're not getting the weapons we
need even though they've gotten billions
upon billions of dollars of weapons
including the 2,000 pound bombs and so
on so forth so Nan is basically
preparing the way forward if if if the
Biden Administration as we know it
succumbs and seems like from blink's
declaration it's succumbing yet again to
the humiliation of the pathological fire
in t Aviv or wor comes to worst you know
they lash they lash against netan but
nany becomes friends with Trump as the
election nears Maran I couldn't help but
notice and in this video the man who is
essentially asking for these 2,000 bombs
to quote finish the job he's supposedly
also the man who the US says has signed
up to a ceasefire
deal but you see this is the thing right
I mean uh the the most recent report
this morning from The New York Times
right underlines underlines the fact
that uh secretary blinkin could not get
Netanyahu to State unequivocally that he
supports the proposal imagine after all
the back and forth since what 11th of
May and later on since the the UN
resolution was adopted by the UN
Security Council and still there is no
clear statement from Israel public or
apparently private because blinkin keept
telling us and the rest of the
world that in fact Netanyahu is on board
but in the New York Times report this
morning no it's not clear at all that
netan is on board with the American
Proposal with the UN Security Council
resolution so once again we are dealing
with a pathological liar he made a
career out of his lying since he first
became prime minister in 1996 every sing
single Israeli politician today can
testify to the fact that he was either
stabbed in the back by him or light him
even his finance minister right smri the
the sort of the radical of the radical
The Fanatic of the Fanatics in Israel
the most uh close radical to Netanyahu
today SMR have have have called
Netanyahu the liar of all liars you can
imagine that you know the idea that
Netanyahu would stab Biden in the back
after
uh eight months of unconditional support
after the bation going out of its way to
do basically everything possible
including excuse my expression
prostituting itself in favor of Israel's
war crimes in Gaza and still that's not
even enough for the man sitting in t
Aviv Mr nanyo who is more than capable
to step over anyone everywhere for his
career and his for fanatical program in
Israel alzer's senior political analyst
Maran bashara joining us again thank you
very much
Maran make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al